README.md, before:

# Face Recognition Android App

<a href="http://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.lauszus.facerecognitionapp"><img src="https://play.google.com/intl/en_us/badges/images/generic/en_badge_web_generic.png" alt="Google Play" width="200px"/></a>

#### Developed by Kristian Lauszus, 2016

The code is released under the GNU General Public License.
_________
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Lauszus/FaceRecognitionApp.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Lauszus/FaceRecognitionApp)

This project demonstrates how to calculate Eigenfaces and Fisherfaces used for face recognition on an Android device.

The library uses my other project [FaceRecognitionLib](https://github.com/Lauszus/FaceRecognitionLib) in order to calculate the Eigenfaces and Fisherfaces.

A short blog post can be found at the following link: <http://blog.tkjelectronics.dk/2017/07/face-recognition-using-eigenfaces-and-fisherfaces>.

The reports I wrote together with Jonathan Wang can be found at the following links: [Eigenfaces\_Report.pdf](https://github.com/Lauszus/FaceRecognitionLib/raw/master/Eigenfaces_Report.pdf) and [Final\_Project\_Report.pdf](https://github.com/Lauszus/FaceRecognitionLib/raw/master/Final_Project_Report.pdf).

## Screenshots

<img src="face_detected_kristian.png" width=250/><img src="face_detected_jon.png" width=250/><img src="navigation_menu.png" width=250/>

## Build instructions

In order to built this project you need to download and install [Android Studio](http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html). You will then need to install the [Android NDK](https://developer.android.com/studio/projects/add-native-code.html#download-ndk).

Then clone the repository including the submodule:

```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/Lauszus/FaceRecognitionApp.git
```

If you have already cloned the project, then please run the following command in order to initialise the submodule:

```bash
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

The project is relying on the environmental variables ```OPENCV_ANDROID_SDK``` and ```EIGEN3_DIR``` in [Android.mk](app/src/main/cpp/Android.mk) to be set to the path of the [OpenCV Android SDK](http://opencv.org/platforms/android) and [Eigen3](https://eigen.tuxfamily.org) libraries.

Both can be installed manually like so:

```bash
wget https://github.com/opencv/opencv/releases/download/3.2.0/opencv-3.2.0-android-sdk.zip -O opencv-android-sdk.zip
unzip opencv-android-sdk.zip
wget https://bitbucket.org/eigen/eigen/get/3.3.3.zip -O Eigen3.zip
unzip Eigen3.zip
```

Now simple set the environmental variables:

Linux:

```bash
nano ~/.bash_profile
export OPENCV_ANDROID_SDK=/path/to/OpenCV-android-sdk
export EIGEN3_DIR=/path/to/eigen3
echo $OPENCV_ANDROID_SDK $EIGEN3_DIR
```

Mac:

```bash
nano /etc/launchd.conf
setenv OPENCV_ANDROID_SDK /path/to/OpenCV-android-sdk
setenv EIGEN3_DIR /path/to/eigen3
echo $OPENCV_ANDROID_SDK $EIGEN3_DIR
```

Windows:

```bash
setx OPENCV_ANDROID_SDK /path/to/OpenCV-android-sdk
setx EIGEN3_DIR /path/to/eigen3
echo %OPENCV_ANDROID_SDK% %EIGEN3_DIR%
```

For more information send me an email at <lauszus@gmail.com>.

Commit message:

Try to make it more clear that "/path/to/" should be replaced with the actual path to the Eigen and OpenCV Android SDK directories

README.md, after:

# Face Recognition Android App

<a href="http://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.lauszus.facerecognitionapp"><img src="https://play.google.com/intl/en_us/badges/images/generic/en_badge_web_generic.png" alt="Google Play" width="200px"/></a>

#### Developed by Kristian Lauszus, 2016

The code is released under the GNU General Public License.
_________
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Lauszus/FaceRecognitionApp.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Lauszus/FaceRecognitionApp)

This project demonstrates how to calculate Eigenfaces and Fisherfaces used for face recognition on an Android device.

The library uses my other project [FaceRecognitionLib](https://github.com/Lauszus/FaceRecognitionLib) in order to calculate the Eigenfaces and Fisherfaces.

A short blog post can be found at the following link: <http://blog.tkjelectronics.dk/2017/07/face-recognition-using-eigenfaces-and-fisherfaces>.

The reports I wrote together with Jonathan Wang can be found at the following links: [Eigenfaces\_Report.pdf](https://github.com/Lauszus/FaceRecognitionLib/raw/master/Eigenfaces_Report.pdf) and [Final\_Project\_Report.pdf](https://github.com/Lauszus/FaceRecognitionLib/raw/master/Final_Project_Report.pdf).

## Screenshots

<img src="face_detected_kristian.png" width=250/><img src="face_detected_jon.png" width=250/><img src="navigation_menu.png" width=250/>

## Build instructions

In order to built this project you need to download and install [Android Studio](http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html). You will then need to install the [Android NDK](https://developer.android.com/studio/projects/add-native-code.html#download-ndk).

Then clone the repository including the submodule:

```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/Lauszus/FaceRecognitionApp.git
```

If you have already cloned the project, then please run the following command in order to initialise the submodule:

```bash
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

The project is relying on the environmental variables ```OPENCV_ANDROID_SDK``` and ```EIGEN3_DIR``` in [Android.mk](app/src/main/cpp/Android.mk) to be set to the path of the [OpenCV Android SDK](http://opencv.org/platforms/android) and [Eigen3](https://eigen.tuxfamily.org) libraries.

Both can be installed manually like so:

```bash
wget https://github.com/opencv/opencv/releases/download/3.2.0/opencv-3.2.0-android-sdk.zip -O opencv-android-sdk.zip
unzip opencv-android-sdk.zip
wget https://bitbucket.org/eigen/eigen/get/3.3.3.zip -O Eigen3.zip
unzip Eigen3.zip
```

Now simple set the environmental variables:

Linux:

```bash
nano ~/.bash_profile
export OPENCV_ANDROID_SDK=/path/to/OpenCV-android-sdk
export EIGEN3_DIR=/path/to/eigen3
echo $OPENCV_ANDROID_SDK $EIGEN3_DIR
```

Mac:

```bash
nano /etc/launchd.conf
setenv OPENCV_ANDROID_SDK /path/to/OpenCV-android-sdk
setenv EIGEN3_DIR /path/to/eigen3
echo $OPENCV_ANDROID_SDK $EIGEN3_DIR
```

Windows:

```bash
setx OPENCV_ANDROID_SDK /path/to/OpenCV-android-sdk
setx EIGEN3_DIR /path/to/eigen3
echo %OPENCV_ANDROID_SDK% %EIGEN3_DIR%
```

__Please note that ```/path/to/``` should be replaced with the actual path to the Eigen and OpenCV Android SDK directories.__

For more information send me an email at <lauszus@gmail.com>.
